Hold down left shift to pick up cubes
Cubes may come in handy to block the paths of enemies
Your objectives are displayed in the upper right hand corner
Avoid red skulls, they can kill you instantly!
The different planets that you visit have different gravity, so you might notice a difference in how high player can jump
The harder the difficulty, the more enemies there are
Enemies will chase you back to your ship after you've collected certain items
Sometimes enemies will go back to your ship and stay there in an attempt to prevent you from returning to it
Climbing up platforms will sometimes let you get to the item you are looking for
Pressing the down arrow key will allow your character to crouch
Rocks and cubes can be helpful when trying to avoid enemies
Avoid the green clouds of poisonous gas. the more time you spend in one the lower your health will go
Grey clouds won't do any damage to you but they will slow you down
Complete your objectives to beat the level
Inventory items carry over to the next level, so if you have an item that isn't useful now it might be in the future. 
Are you trash because I'd like to take you out
"Great, kid. Don't get cocky" - Han Solo
"It's a trap!" - Admiral Ackbar
"Do. Or do not. There is no try" - Yoda
"I've got a bad feeling about this" - Han Solo
"Computer, compute to the last digit the value of pi" - Spock
Watch your head! Enemies that spawn on platforms may roll off them and drop from above!
The golden idol always spawns at the highest point on the map. Of course, you'll have to find out where that point is...
Poison clouds and enemies do more damage as you progress through levels
As you progress, planets will get more and more hilly and unpredictable
Collect coins and ancient artifacts to get more gold
"IT'S A FAAAAAKE!" - Senator Vreenak
"I AM GROOT" - Groot
"I aim to misbehave" - Mal Reynolds
"The line must be drawn here! This far, no further!" - Jean-Luc Picard
"Admiral, there be whales here!" - Montgomery "Scotty" Scott
"Nothing goes over my head. My reflexes are too fast. I would catch it." - Drax
Your spaceship will always be at the leftmost edge of the map
Tired of dealing with enemies? Trap them by wedging them in between two boxes or boulders!
Being chased by enemies? They can't jump, so use platforms to avoid them
Low on health or time? You can use items you've collected by clicking their icons in the inventory